The Joe Rogan experience. Do you think that you could do Tropic thunder today?
Would that be possible?
Oh, you could do it. <laugh> And again,
like Eddie, you know,
I look back to me that movie to me was a circle back to my
dad's movie called Putney school Oak, which I highly recommend, uh,
anyone who hasn't seen to see about a black guy who takes over an ad agency in
the sixties, cuz everyone votes for him. Uh, when the, uh,
head of the company dies because they think no one else will.
And it's about what happens when someone who is free spirited takes over and
essentially corrupt endeavor.
And then he realizes and confronts his own corruption. But, um,
I remember I was probably two or three when that was being shot and when it came
out and it was so a part of my upbringing and I just remembered some of the,
the folks that were around my dad at that time.
And so when Ben called and said, Hey, I'm doing this. And you know,
I think maybe Sean Penn had passed on it or something like that.
<laugh> possibly wisely. And um, I thought, yeah, I'll do that.
And I'll do that after Ironman. And then I started thinking,
this is a terrible idea. <laugh> we wait a minute? And then I thought, well,
hold on, dude, get real here. Where is your heart?
And my heart is a, I get to,
I get to be black for a summer in my mind.
<laugh> so there's something in it for me. <laugh>
The other thing is I get to hold up to nature,
the insane self-involved hypocrisy of artists and
what they think they're allowed to do on occasion. Just my opinion.
And also Ben, who is a masterful artist and director,
probably the closest thing to a Charlie chaplain that I've experienced in my
lifetime. He writes, he directs, he acts, he, if you had seen him,
when he was directing this movie, you would've been like,
I'm watching David lean, I'm watching chaplain, I'm watching cop. He,
he knew exactly what the vision for this was. He executed it,
it was impossible to not have it be an offensive nightmare of a movie <laugh>
and 90% of my black friends are like, dude, that was great. <laugh>.
What about at the other 10%?
Um, you know, I, I can't disagree with them,
but I know where my heart was. Yeah.
And I think that it's never an excuse to do something that is out
of place and not of its time. But to me it was just putting a,
it was a blasting cap on and by the way,
I think white chicks came out pretty soon after that. Yeah. And I was like,
I love that. Yeah. I was like, that was great. Yeah. So.
You know, well, it might be the last time we see that,
unless things change, it seems like no one can really,
I don't think you could do blackface anymore. I mean,
we almost lost the prime minister at Canada cuz he did brown face.
He pretended to be Saudi Arabian, right? Yeah.
He did Arabian nights in high school or something like that.
It's uh,
it's an interesting and necessary meditation on where
is the pendulum <affirmative> why is the pendulum, right? Yeah.
Where is the pendulum? Uh,
maybe cutting a little into what could be perceived as,
as heart in the right place. Openness of its time. But again,
I mean, you know, there's a morality clause here on,
on this planet and it's a big price to pay.
And I think having a moral psychology is, uh, is job one.
So sometimes you just gotta go. Yeah. You know,
I F up again, not in my defense,
but Tropic thunder was about
how wrong that is. Yes. So
I take exception.
No it's I think you could do it today.
I think you could. I think it could be done today.
There would be so much outrage, but there would also be people cheering.
And if you, if we got,
we boiled down all the and got to the actual result of what the film did,
it's hilarious to this. I watched it again about a year and a half ago.
It's a great movie. It's a great fun movie. I mean it's,
it's ridiculous. Over the top. Hilarious.
And it worked and, and your portrayal. I mean it wasn't, it wasn't egregious.
It wasn't, it was, it was ne it made sense.
All of it fit it all there's square pegs and square holes.
I was just thinking square peg. I don't know why I was thinking, oh,
I was thinking about Sarah Jessica Parker on the ride over here.
<laugh> isn't that crazy? I think I drove by that Warner park near here. Uh,
yeah. Yeah.
I think she went to school over there when she was doing a show anyway.
Interesting. Yeah.
It, it worked and, but it was,
it might be the last time we'll ever see a studio,
take a chance on a guy wearing black face and the,
the prolific use of the word retard. Those are two.
Things. And by the way, that's a Ben, the funny thing too,
was all the heat got deflected to Ben and simple Jack. Yeah.
That's what people were off about. And I go, woo. <laugh>.
Great.
But you never know when it's gonna be your time in the barrel. You know,
sometimes, sometimes life just says, you know what? And,
and I've been on both sides at that coin. Sometimes life just says,
you're a symbol. Now, did.
You have anybody that was telling you not to do it?
Were there a bunch agents or anyone who was like, my mother.
Was horrified. <laugh>
Really Bobby. I am telling you,
I have a bad feeling about this <laugh> I was like, yeah, me too, mom.
<laugh>. But, uh, anyway, how are we.
First handset? When I putting the makeup on you? How, how hard are you sweating?
There's been a couple times.
I was all the night before and we were on Kauai
and I was like, well, here we go. And I was just running.
I think I had six that day,
but I knew that there was gonna be choppers. There was gonna be, uh,
squib fire. There was gonna be choreography. There was gonna be, you know,
it was gonna be coffins.
And the only thing that mattered to me again, what's my action. My action,
as an actor in this movie is to know what I'm doing,
even if what I'm doing is insane.
So I ran those six or eight lines.
I had a thousand times lying in bed over and over and over
and over and over and over and over and over again.
So the next day I was free to enjoy myself
and not be struggling to wonder what it was. I was supposed to be the doing.
And then that's what it is. It was just, you know,
it was one little mosaic after the next and,
and by the end of it, I had some, um,
pride that AI had made it through, forget that it was, you know, black face.
It was special effects makeup day after day after day after day after day after
day after day, except for the off times when,
and I would have my bleached hair and blue contacts in my eyes, or, you know,
other characters and it was just a, uh, it was a piece of work I was doing
and I cared about doing it as professionally and as honestly as I could.
So when you memorized lines,
that's an interesting thing that you said that you were free to, to do it.
Like when you memorize lines, is there ever a part,
like when you're acting where you have to think like, okay,
what am I supposed to say next? And how much does that get in the way there's.
I look, I have a very broad band of, uh, of tolerances.
I don't care if the people I'm with happen to not know what they're doing,
or don't know their lines or stepping on my lines or, or whatever,
or want to change their lines and my lines. And it's always a different,
uh, thing. It's like reading the room. It's like, you know, if I was a fighter,
you go into the octagon and they go, you ready? You ready? And you go,
and then you just do it. You go in.
But so I've had it where I would try to be off book before everyone else
I would get it down to an acronym.
So if there was a thousand words I had to remember,
I would just remember the first letter of each and I would put it on a piece of
poster board, and then I would stand away from it. Not as far as you and your,
your, uh, archery, he set up over there,
but far enough away to where I can see it,
but kind of can't see it back when my vision was a little more clear and I would
just run it and run it and run it. Um, when I did the first Sherlock,
we were rewriting it so much and I would have pages and pages of stuff.
I was like, give me a ear wig. And it helped me with my accent.
And then I started getting into like, you know, what's so great.
I can finish work, go home,
hang out with my kids or do whatever I wanna do go train.
And in the morning they can change it all they want.
I don't have to trip if at all, if, you know,
unless it's some monologue that you want to really be committed to,
that's not going to shift. I'd just go like.
That. So you'd put one of those little ear pieces in and they would feed you the
lines. Yeah.
Yeah. And now I've kind of gone as far as you can go with that.
And I'll probably go back to a new method or a new version of the old method.
So it's basically improvisational like you in, in the moment, like you,
you decide with whatever preparation you're gonna do for each role,
how you gonna do it,
whether you're gonna go and memorize everything obsessively or whether you're
just gonna be a little bit more loose and free with it. Yes.
It depends on the script too. Like Tropic thunder.
Justin Thoreau wrote that script with, uh, with Ben really good script.
I mean, my misses who next to my mother, you know,
probably more so is the opinion I was really waiting on.
And she was reading in the kitchen, laughing her off. She goes,
this is so wrong. <laugh> this is so wrong. And she goes,
and it's so true. Oh, if you do this right,
you're, you're doing something that's,
it's about a bunch of self-involved idiots, somehow other becoming heroes.
And she goes, I love that. If that's what it stays, then it's gonna be good.
And so like, for instance, the, uh, you know, never go yeah. Uh, full blah,
blah. Don't you wanna say it? <laugh> no, by the way,
I guarantee you I'm getting outta here. My stock is not plummeting.
When I leave here, I'm not smoking dope. I'm not doing a Musk.
I'm gonna do everything. Right. His stock went up the next.
Day. All right. Drop six, went up nine with who? <laugh>. I don't know.
I don't understand it. I love that. You.
Now have it. Now it's a piece.
Of art. Yeah. <laugh> with 6% in the smoke.
<laugh> God bless his.
Heart. Yeah. It just changes.